the Israeli military says it's rescued
two of the hostages abducted by Hamas
during a raid in the Gaza Strip their
release from an apartment in Rafa was
announced shortly after Israel carried
out an intense aerial bombardment of the
city the two men Fernando Maron and LS
ha aged 60 and 70 respectfully are said
to be in a good condition they've been
taken to a hospital in central Israel
it's the thought to be only the second
time that Israel has carried out a
successful military operation to rescue
hostages dozens of Palestinians were
reported to have been killed during the
Israeli air strikes in Rafa overnight
residents told the BBC that there've
been around 50 air strikes in the early
hours of Monday um as well as that
helicopters and boats took part in the
attack well earlier Benjamin rad from
the UCL Center for Middle East
development told told us more about the
critical situation in southern
Gaza Rafa appears to be the very last
refuge for uh Hamas leadership and the
remnants or what's left of hamas's
Fighters and also where the government
believes that the a good portion of the
hostages may be kept as we've seen from
the two that were rescued it also limits
really where they can go at this point
now as they get hemmed further and
further to the south of the country now
they're pushed against the border the
idea is to provide little opportunity
for homas leadership including yoir and
others to find Escape Routes out of the
out of the
area Benjamin Netanyahu must be coming
under considerable uh pressure uh
certainly the US indicating that it's
the welfare of those within the strip
that they are concerned about um and yet
he remains
defiant yes and let's not um pretend
that it's a coincidence that this
operation was scheduled at the time as
the United States those of us here were
watching the Super Bowl so it was really
meant to be I believe uh timed in an
opportune way to minimize detention and
scrutiny and also netanyahu's position
is that any attempt to seize operations
or not pursue it to its utmost end which
he believes includes going into Rafa
would essentially hand Hamas an
opportunity to regain control or to
reconstitute itself and also lastly is
the pressure to put on Hamas as part of
the ongoing hostage negotiations because
we've seen Netanyahu already rejected
the counter proposal that Hamas offered
last week Benjamin do you do you think
in a in a conflict such as this that the
solution is going to be a military one
or not well it depends on if the if the
main objective is to free the hostages
then no a full military solution will
very unlikely to lead to the safe um uh
to the rescue of the remaining hostages
it's very difficult to see how that can
be the case and if it's going to be an
enduring solution not just a temporary
one it's going to have to involve more
diplomacy and less military action and
ultimately it has to involve something
that creates a semblance of a
Palestinian state or um autonomous
governing entity as it stands we're not
hearing any of that from the Netanyahu
side and that's what poses a problem
however as you mentioned he faces
tremendous domestic opposition as well
specifically from right-wing members of
his cabinet who are insisting that he
not yield at all in these
operations as far as the Middle East
goes I mean relations here are really
being uh threatened particularly moving
forward I'm looking at Future
cooperation within the region not just
for Israel but for the likes of the
United States as
well well a lot of this will hinge on
how quickly Israel can get in and get
out of Rafa and continue the operations
it is carrying out now and secondly we
have the parallel track of negotiations
taking place and all indications from
the state department are that they are
progressing and moving forward they're
speaking with very confident language
that some agreement will be reached and
then we also know that the Saudis are
very eager to see this all come to an
end so they can resume talks towards
normalizing relations with Israel we
know that this is something that's been
sitting on the back burner but that both
countries have an interest in pushing
forward so the momentum is there barring
any um catastrophic or horrific um
action by the Israelis that results in a
large number of Civilian deaths as part
of this Rafa operation that remains to
be
seen that was Benjamin rad there we're
going to cross live now to Jerusalem and
speak to our correspondent there Barbara
PL user hello there to you Barbara um
what more do we know about the hostages
that were rescued first
off well they were rescued in quite a
dramatic operation overnight in Rafa two
older men their names are Fernando Simon
marman aged 60 and Louie har aged 70 so
they've been in captivity for 128 days
uh but the Army is saying they're in
good medical conditions so that would be
a relief for their families and the
military's been saying a little bit more
about what went into it they said they
two men were found in a residential
building in Rafa on the second floor
that they had been monitoring that area
for quite a long time and then they
spent sent in a special uh Joint Forces
operation which involved the Army uh
this the internal security service as
well as the special police forces they
breached the building with an explosive
they said uh there was a lot of heavy
gunfire during the rescue operation and
then there were the air strikes as the
the team and the two hostages were
extricated uh from the area and uh the
military spokesman said also that the
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as
well as top military officials were
monitoring it as it went ahead yeah
Daniel hagari was speaking just a short
time ago did he make any reference to
criticism of the their offensive in
Raa well it's interesting because during
this heavy bombardment overnight the
Palestinian residents of Rafa panicked
because they thought this was going to
be that ground offensive that Mr
Netanyahu has been talking about but it
wasn't that is still being planned the
military has been tasked with a plan to
come up for that as well as a plan to
evacuate the civilians and you know
there are more than a million displaced
Palestinians who are Sheltering in Rafa
as a sort of last place where they could
go as the Israeli Army moved through the
Gaza Strip um having people evacuate to
the South so so Mr Netanyahu has uh been
coming out and saying we will have a
plan to evacuate them we're working out
the details he hasn't given those
details he had a chat with that about
with about that with the uh American
president yesterday who's very concerned
about the possibility of heavy
casualties but also the humanitarian
situation there which is already very
Grim becoming much much worse and Mr
Biden told Mr Netanyahu uh that plan to
evacuate it has to be credible and it
has to be executable it has to be
possible in order to protect this the
the civilians but that is not something
that seems to be imminent because a plan
like that um will take some time Barbara
just how strained are not only
diplomatic relations in the region but
also amongst the Allies um that Israel
counts upon for example the United
States I think things are quite strained
uh with the United States uh because the
Americans have been pressing the
Netanyahu government
um very consistently and in person and
on the telephone to tone down and Tamp
down on the military operation to do
much more to let in humanitarian Aid and
to take measures to protect civilians
now they have had some success but it's
been quite modest uh and that is I think
frustrating the administration
considerably you have heard uh rhetoric
from the secretary of state that has
been getting tougher but also now from
the president over the last few days in
which he actually called the military
oper operation over the top in Gaza
something that many critics have been
saying for a long time including
constituencies that are important to Mr
Biden politically uh but others as well
um in terms of the region the that is
very tense at the moment and I'll just
focus on Egypt which of course has a
peace treaty with Israel and that is a
has been an anchor a Cornerstone of
regional St stability for decades Egypt
according to reports is saying that it
would it would tear up that treaty or
pull out of that treaty if Israel
carried out a ground invasion of Rafa
now they haven't been saying that
publicly publicly they have been warning
of dire consequences but just those
reports give you some idea of how
concerned the Arabs and especially Egypt
which is on the border with Israel and
the border with Gaza uh and Rafa see any
possible U major military operation in
Gaza in Rafa sorry okay Barbara plasa
something to watch keenly there thank
you very much indeed thank you